[Music]
hope you brought your appetite for this
111 ways all-you-can-eat buffets make
their money hey you ever wonder how
all-you-can-eat buffets could possibly
make any money I mean given the name how
on earth do they feed people's
bottomless appetites and still come out
with a profit restaurant guests can grab
plate after plate or even stack
everything vertically on one of an
endless array of dishes and cuisines all
of this for one usually low price so
what's their secret to success
well these sorts of buffets have some
tricks up their sleeve to keep business
rolling and you're about to find out
exactly what they are now before we get
into the behind the scenes of your
favorite buffet style restaurants don't
forget to subscribe to our channel where
you'll find the answers to life's
biggest questions be sure to ring that
Bell to be notified of our daily uploads
here on the bright side of life all
right first things first who came up
with a plan to let people grab as much
food as they want well you can thank the
Swedish for that the buffet was a
highlight of medieval feasts but it was
the Swedes who formally introduced the
braathens board in the 16th century this
elaborate buffet was their way of
welcoming guests the original menu
consisted of finger foods no not real
fingers cured meats smoked fish and
Robin a traditional spiced vodka ooh in
the 18th century they introduced both
cold and hot dishes to the table and
change the name to smorgasbord which I'm
sure you've heard of the smorgasbord
gained global fame during the 1912
Olympic Games in Stockholm
and the Swedes brought it to the u.s. at
the 1939 World's Fair but it was herb
MacDonald a show producer for the El
Rancho Vegas hotel who decided to use
this style as a marketing strategy to
keep patrons gambling in the mid 40s
he opened the buckaroo buffet a 24-hour
all-you-can-eat spread for the price of
$1
the endless buffets long and enduring
history proves how effective and popular
it is but now let's get into the details
as to how the whole thing works and how
they manage to turn a profit
here's a list of their most effective
methods counting down from number 11 a
strategic layout anyone who's ever been
to a buffet might have noticed this
strategic layout at the start of the
line the first thing you see is carb
rich foods like fried rice they
sometimes put veggies or salads at the
beginning too the line starts with these
dishes because they have the cheapest
ingredients but still do the job of
filling up your belly it's only further
down the line when you can get meat fish
or other more expensive main courses
number 10 the size of the serving dishes
besides the layout they also control the
size of the serving dishes cheap
starches and veggies are in the big
heaping trays with more jumbo size
serving spoons you can scoop out large
quantities of rice and fill your plate
up faster at the beginning of the line
trays for more expensive foods on the
other hand aren't that huge and full
they often give you tongs to grab the
pieces one at a time so that you can't
simply pile it on your plate you have no
choice but to limit yourself and move on
because you don't want to hold up the
line it's genius
number nine smaller plates and utensils
buffets don't limit this size control to
the serving dishes they also effectively
monitor the size of the plates and
eating utensils they provide smaller
than average dinner plates and tiny
dessert bowls even the spoon and fork
you're given are smaller than the normal
ones it boils down to the psychology of
eating based on a study conducted by
researchers at the MRC LC Widdowson
laboratory at the University of Oxford
limiting the bite or portion size
reduces overeating so it's no wonder you
can't find full-size dinner plates or
big soup bowls on an all-you-can-eat
buffet table number eight a huge food
cost margin despite all that there are
still restaurant patrons who overeat
they're called super diners and buffets
are well aware of people who could eat
three times what the average person
could which brings us to the cost of
food according to chef Jonas McAllister
the price the restaurant pays for the
food or ingredients is just thirty to
thirty-five percent of the price guests
pay for a meal a super diner doesn't
burn a hole in the buffets budget simply
because they have such a huge food cost
margin number 7 computer monitored food
waste so there's bound to be food waste
given the fact that our eyes are often a
lot bigger than our bellies so how do
buffets deal with us well they use
sophisticated computer software to
monitor food waste this way they can
track everything from the weekly waste
amounts to how much is consumed daily to
what dishes are most popular for the
diners depending on the day of the week
or the season after this rigorous data
gathering they can determine what types
of dishes people want and how much
they're likely to consume some buffets
even charge double as a form of
punishment to diners who have leftovers
on their plate
just like mom said yeah better clean
that play number six the fill the
customers belly cheaply motto Psychology
Today explains that every buffets
mission is to fill the customers belly
as cheaply and as quickly as possible
how do they do it they have a flexible
menu designed towards cheap dishes
vegetables and meat are bought in bulk
and at a cheaper price but they're still
high-quality and versatile the same goes
for rice and noodle based foods number
five buying seasonal and regional
ingredients if an ingredient for example
tomatoes is in season it's a lot cheaper
than usual so a buffet can buy it in
bulk they also take advantage of locally
sourced foods or ingredients because
they tend to be cheaper what's great
about that flexible menu is that they
can easily change it so if an ingredient
moves offseason and prices started to
increase they can remove it from their
lineup and exchange it with something
cheaper as a bonus it also attracts more
patrons when they use ads like locally
sourced or seasonally fresh this
marketing trick creates an illusion that
diners are getting something extra
special number for profitable drinks of
course
how can you wolf down spoonfuls of food
without a beverage to wash it down and
this is where buffets really rake in the
cash drinks aren't included in the price
of the buffet and don't fall into the
same 30 percent food cost markup instead
they sell it at up to a 90 percent
profit margin it's their sneaky and
clever way of pocketing more dough per
person before you even get to the buffet
line
number three eliminating labor costs
everyone in the food business can
testify how labor costs take up a huge
percentage of their profit but this
isn't really a problem for
all-you-can-eat joints they don't need
to hire waiters to serve food because
diners get their own drinks and plates
this is the benefit of self-service
dining fancy plating or elaborate food
presentation by skilled chefs isn't
necessary either the dishes are prepared
and cooked in advanced in large
quantities it saves labor costs and
allows buffets to enjoy larger profits
[Music]
number two charging higher prices for
higher quality for some diners a cheaper
price buffet isn't always better this
was proven in a study conducted by the
Cornell food and brand lab at Cornell
University a team of researchers studied
how the price of a buffet influenced
customers of the 139 participants who
dined at an Italian buffet in New York
one group was charged for dollars while
the other had to pay eight dollars both
groups ate from the same pizza buffet
menu yet the ones who paid eight dollars
were more satisfied than those who paid
less this goes to show that higher
prices often get more customers in the
door
and number one banning people now
believe it or not diners can get banned
for overeating I know it seems totally
unreasonable given the whole
all-you-can-eat promise in their
branding but it does happen like in 2012
when an over diner by the name of Bill
whist was banned from one buffet style
fish fry it was piling so much on his
plate that the restaurant was running
out of food for other patrons the
establishment says that it wasn't a
one-time thing and they even called the
police to settle the matter well endless
buffets still run a business and they
can't do that if people take advantage
of the privilege given to them in other
words they're saying hey this isn't
all-you-can-eat joint and buddy that's
all you can eat and that's basically it
the science behind all-you-can-eat
buffets is a play of economics marketing
consumer behavior and a bit of force
sure you can still eat anything you want
but that doesn't necessarily mean you're
getting what you pay for
after all the moment you step inside the
restaurant they already have full
control over what you'll eat and how
much you'll consume so it's up to you to
decide if you're really getting such an
incredible deal hey what are your
thoughts on endless buffets do you still
think it's worth having a meal there
tell us in the comments below if you
found this video I openin or helpful
then give us a like and share it with
your friends be sure to subscribe and
all we stay on the bright side of life
[Music]